2024: Week 10 - Preppin' for Pulse
March 06, 2024
Challenge by: Jenny Martin

Tableau Product Manager, Libby Knell has challenged us to create a Preppin' Data challenge that gets data in shape for working with the newly released Tableau Pulse. Pulse empowers every employee to make better, faster decisions by tracking a metric’s current value, compared to the past — so what does this mean for the shape of our data? Currently, Pulse works best with:

Data that is up to date and recent - the last 1 or 2 years and changes regularly - daily or weekly preferable
Data that is complete, without gaps
Data that is as granular as possible
The names of fields are human readable - let’s not use acronyms that lack context!
String values in the data are consistently named
Chin & Beard Suds Co are excited to get started using Tableau Pulse so their employees can make smarter decisions for their flagship store. Their store manager is always on the go and works off their phone daily. With the insights Pulse provides, they’ll be better able to keep track of which products are selling well and might need to be restocked sooner than anticipated. Even better, digests on Email and Slack, as well as Tableau Pulse on Tableau Mobile, meets them where they are so they can stay on top of their daily changing data!
Inputs
1. Transaction Data 


2. Product Table 


3. Loyalty Table 


Requirements
Input the data
Filter to the last 2 years of data i.e. only 2023 and 2024 transactions
This will allow for year on year comparison
Create additional rows of data for the days the store was closed, ensuring all other fields will have null values
The store is closed on Sundays and Public Holidays
Update the Cash_or_Card field so that:
1=Card
2=Cash
Join the Product Table
You'll need to prepare the join clause fields first
Calculate the Quantity of each transaction 
Defined as the Sales_Before_Discount / Selling_Price
In the Loyalty Table:
The Customer_Name is currently reading Last Name, First Name. Update it to read First Name Last Name in Title case
e.g. knell, libby becomes Libby Knell
Group together the Loyalty_Tiers into Gold, Silver and Bronze
Update the Loyalty_Discount to be a numeric field
Join the Loyalty Table
Create a Sales_After_Discount field to apply the Loyalty_Discount for transactions with a Loyalty_Number
Calculate the Profit, defined as:
Sales_After_Discount - (Unit_Cost * Quantity)
Update the field names to remove all underscores and replace them with spaces
Remove any unnecessary fields
Output the data
If you're working in a tool that allows you to create a Published Data Source, that would be best, as we're preparing the data for Pulse!
Output

14 fields
Transaction Date
Transaction Number
Product Type
Product Scent
Product Size
Cash or Card
Loyalty Number
Customer Name
Loyalty Tier
Loyalty Discount
Quantity
Sales Before Discount
Sales After Discount
Profit
39,337 rows (39,338 including headers)